# Spirals Reflections

## Tkinter Exploration

An idea sparked after one of our conversations. I had started investigating tkinter but hadn’t really done much with it. I had been busy and it felt a bit drab. But then I thought I’d try exploring how to animate text, using the golden ratio, to create a stream of words using tkinter. Not being a maths whizz, I sought the help of ChatGPT. It feels a bit cheaty but at the same time it seemed difficult to actually get it to provide what I wanted. Also, I understand that people grab code and help from all over the place to do what they want.

In this case, I didn’t have a really set idea of what I wanted to do but was happy to springboard off the broad concept of moving letters and see where it led. My initial thought was a flowing stream of letters moving or possibly spiraling around. At first I wanted to create separate spirals apart from each other and I have one like that, but I ended up replicating several spirals and contrasting the colours with each other.

The result so far is a series of files where you see an evolution of ideas as I unpack the meaning behind the original code. I haven’t retained all of my earlier trials but there is enough to see how the ideas developed. Originally the background was white with black text. So part of the journey was learning how to change colours of both the text and the background. In addition, I experimented with the results of changing the speed, ratio and what happens when “canvas.delete(“all”) is commented out. The result was Let there be Mass.

Each new version provoked a laugh as I watched the results unfold. I also tried different fonts and settled on a symbolic font for a while before having a go at a conventional font again. I’ve yet to fully explore colour but returned to a white background for one file and a black text (out of the three spirals) to give more contrast as the spiral transitioned into a central black hole - Let there be spiral Black Hole. In that particular case, the black hole then morphs again into another pattern standing out against the expanding black hole. My daughter, Kirsten commented about the black hole that it shoots out radiance. So the creation of the black hole transitioning into arcs of light seems fitting.

I found myself attributing metaphorical meanings to some of the patterns that were created. I have tried looking into how to open more than one window at a time – or even having some kind of button to activate a second window but haven’t worked that out yet. Also, thinking about how to cause my spirals to contract after expanding.
